Lesson we're gonna be
looking at options for
typography and text formatting
and as well within the lists,
how we can apply different
list styles in order to create
structure within our
lists of HTML content.
Looking at the H tags
and how we can apply
a class which applies
the same styling as
the heading tags.
There's the H1, H2,
all the way to H6.
There's also a display tag.
So this is if you want to
highlight the text
a little bit more,
makes it bigger
and makes the text
thinner as opposed
to the heading tags.
There's also what
the small and markup
where you can apply
the various classes.
Some of the elements
will also have styling
in Bootstrap such as
code for the list items.
So if you want it to do
on unlist, unstyled,
that will remove out the bullet
points in the margin for
the list and basically
stock the list items one
on top of the other.
There's also the list inline.
So if case you want to have
the list contents inline.
That's how you can
stack them inline.
You need to apply
the list inline item class
to the list items as well.
We're also going to be
looking at how we can create
a description list and applying
different grid options within
the description list
in order to create
structure for the HTML elements.
That's all coming
up in this lesson.
Bootstrap five uses a default
setting of font size,
which is equal to one REM,
and that's approximately
16 pixels by default.
And the line-height is 1.5.
When you do add in the content.
And you can see that
once it starts wrapping,
it's applying the
different line heights,
as well as the default
pixel size for the font.
There's also a size that's
being set for the headings.
So we've got this
element as having one
and you can go all
the way to heading
two and heading three.
You can also apply
the customized styling to
the various page elements.
So if we had a div and let's
set the class for
the div and set it
up as H1 and add in the
same content there.
So we can do HelloWorld
one for that,
and we'll do one for H2 as well.
So just under the H12 and it
is applying different
styling sizes.
And once you apply the class,
it's going to actually
make the page element,
even though it's
not an h2 element,
it's gonna apply
the class to it.
So it's going to output
that identically.
There's also display headings.
So these are ways to really
stand out from the
normal headings.
And these allow you
to really upside
with a larger font and
lighter font-weight.
There are also six of these
display headings that you
can use in order to apply
the display headings,
you just need to
specify which size
display heading you want to set.
This is display, and it's done
with a dash to indicate
the different sizes.
And I'll update that
content in there.
And you can use any elements.
So these could be
paragraphs there, divs.
You can set them to
whichever ones you want.
The different display settings,
just like the headings
within the HTML tags,
they can go from one to six,
with one being the largest,
six being the smallest in size.
And they are quite a bit bigger
than the regular H tags.
So they will stand
out more on the page.
And as you can see,
it goes all the
way down to display six,
which is still larger
than the H1 tag.
But notice that the
font is lighter in
size and for other
page elements as well.
So if you're using the
small tag for the element,
or if you're using the
mark tag for an element,
there's already going to be
default styling for these,
in addition for code as well.
And these are built-in
to the HTML and they're
actually going to output
it in this format.
So if we were to take these and
apply the Bootstrap styling,
and actually the code
isn't going to work
because they don't have
a class for the code,
but they do have a
class for small,
and they do have
a class for Mark.
Those are just using the same
words for the class names.
So you can convert
it into small,
you can venture into mark.
And the only thing
that it doesn't do
is it doesn't set it as inline.
So if you were to
set these as spans,
whereas span would already have
that inline property
within the element itself,
then they're going
to look the same.
Now the small and the mark
are going to look
identical to what we would
have if you were
using the elements.
This is styling that's
being applied by Bootstrap.
I'll make the page view
slightly bigger so
that we can take
a closer look at the way the
content is being displayed.
There's also lists and
within the topography,
there's what you can do with
the lists in Bootstrap.
Let's create a few lists and C
and apply the different
classes to the lists.
So this is an unordered list
where we've got a
bunch of list items.
And I'll just add
in the list items.
So it gives us the first list
that we're working with.
And I'll copy that and
create a few other lists.
So let's apply a class.
And for the classes,
we do have a list.
And this class is going
to be list on styled.
That will apply and
remove out the bullet
points from the list.
So by default, we do have
the bullet points within
the HTML with list unstyled.
This is gonna give
us an unstyled list
that remove South
the left margin.
There's also a list inline
applying the class,
and this is going to
be listed in line.
And list inline also
removes so at the margins.
But for the list items,
this is going to allow us
to apply the inline list to
each of the list items
that are contained
within the list.
You have to specify
the class of list
in line item in
order to apply it.
And when that gets supplied,
It's going to move the
list items inline.
So that means that if
you have more than two,
it's going to start
inlining them.
And if you apply the list
inline to all of the elements,
It's going to add them all
and have them as inlined,
applying them
horizontally instead of
what you would typically
get with a list.
There's also with
the description list
and how you can construct
the description list,
including the grid format.
So typically with a
descriptive list,
you'd have the descriptive list,
and then within there
you have the d t for
the title of the
descriptive list.
And then for each one of the
descriptive list elements,
you would use the DD.
And that would include the
elements for the list.
So let's tell you
typically create
the descriptive list how it
might have a number of these,
23, and just save that.
So that gives us the
descriptive list.
With the Bootstrap grid.
You can apply the Bootstrap
grid properties to
the list items in
order to display them
as needed title of the list.
You can use an add-in
the class of row.
And then for each one of
the list items can set
the different nesting that
you want for the list items.
You can align the title
alongside of the list items.
So that's supplying that
property to the title.
And then for each one of the
other elements because they
are contained within the row,
we can apply the different
list of values to
those elements within
the list elements.
So let's set these
up as two to two.
And maybe we want
to set this up as
six because we're using SM.
So that's setting a breakpoint.
Let's update the screen size.
And now you can see
that the title has
this element and then these
ones here are aligned.
This is another way that
you can create the lists,
creating a grid format and
then applying two
different titles.
So if you have additional titles
and you might have
some elements,
maybe this one, you
have the two elements.
So you want them to be
aligned with the title.
So always having that same
spacing for the title.
And let's create one more here.
This can be for the title.
And maybe we want to
go all the way across
for this element
because we want to just
have the one element there
that will keep all of
the titles in line
with the elements.
We will resize it that
will keep that structure.
If we go really small,
then it's going to stock
those list items into
this type of format.
And this is how you can
use the list alongside
with the grid in order to build
the structure for
your webpage content.
So try it out to get more
familiar with what
you can do with
the grid and various topography
and text formatting.
Within Bootstrap.